---
layout: page
title: About
class: 'post'
navigation: True
logo: 'assets/images/paparazzi_logo.png'
current: about
---

[Paparazzi UAV](http://paparazziuav.org) (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) is an
open-source drone hardware and software project encompassing autopilot systems
for multicopters/multirotors, fixedwing, helicopters and hybrid aircraft.
Paparazzi, being open, enables users to add more features and improve the
system. Using and improving Paparazzi is encouraged by the community.

The project includes [source-code](https://github.com/paparazzi/paparazzi) for
the avionics and the ground station computers as well as the hardware designs
for many parts of the avionics system. Paparazzi’s avionics software is
designed with portability in mind.  Allowing for the use of the Paparazzi UAV
system on many varied hardware platforms. The ground station computer software
is written in statically typed functional language assuring reliability and
stability of the system. 

Unlike other systems, [Paparazzi UAV](http://paparazziuav.org) was designed
with autonomous flight as the primary focus and manual flying as the secondary.
From the beginning it was designed to be able to control multiple aircraft
within the same system.  Paparazzi features a dynamic flight plan system that
is defined by mission states and using way points as “variables”. This makes it
easy to create very complex fully automated missions without the operators
intervention. 

Since its founding in 2003, Universities and civilian teams have employed
Paparazzi to win top marks in high profile airborne robotics competitions
around the world; thereby, proving the flexibility, durability and advanced
features embedded in the Paparazzi framework. Many of these top marks and
achievements have been documented on our [blog](http://blog.paparazziuav.org/). 

Several core developers to the project are affiliated with universities and
research institutions. These include, [ENAC
University](http://www.enac.fr/en/home) of Toulouse, France,
[MAVlab](http://mavlab.lr.tudelft.nl/) of [TU-Delft](http://www.tudelft.nl/en/)
in the Netherlands and [AggieAir](http://aggieair.usu.edu/) of Utah State
University in the United States. 

Several vendors are currently producing and selling Paparazzi autopilots and
popular accessories, making the system easy and affordable for everyone. Some
of the companies were founded by core developers of the [Paparazzi
UAV](http://paparazziuav.org) project as a way to provided well tested and
integrated hardware to the Paparazzi community. For example,
[1BitSquared](http://1bitsquared.com/) is developing [avionics
hardware](http://1bitsquared.com/collections/autopilots) and providing
consulting services for system integration, software development as well as
custom [nano UAV
hardware](http://1bitsquared.com/collections/hardware-kits/products/lisa-s-nano-quadcopter-kit)
development. 

Paparazzi can be used for many applications from the emerging personal UAV
market to advanced hobbyists, as well as University and civilian research
programs and competitions. It is also being used in the field in daily
operations, for example, [SUMO](http://wiki.paparazziuav.org/wiki/SUMO) is
being used by [meteorological researchers](http://blog.pfump.org/?lang=en) as
reusable weather balloons for collecting data in the Antarctic. The multitude
of applications for Paparazzi are endless, so join the community and contribute
to the project with your innovative ideas.
